Hello. Oh, there we go. It's DHH. Are we recording? Oh, we are recording.
So are you in that amazing office that we see pictures of all the time?
This is the office. This is the office. This is the other picture out the back of it.
How? What's the elevation? Like, you're above the clouds?
Question. I think, uh, what did I look it up? 2000 feet or something? It's not that high.
Yeah. It just looks high because, I mean, I like to take a picture of it when the when the fog rolls
in and the fog looks like it's fog. I thought it was clouds. I mean, it is clouds, but I think
not the kind of clouds most people would call clouds, I suppose, because it is sort of fog.
But, uh, yeah, no, it looks, it looks great. And we've just had like a streak of it for a whole
week. I would walk into the office and it would look like that. And I was like, hot,
dinky damn, I've lived here for seven years. It doesn't get old. Nature is amazing like that.
It's funny because I saw some random account post it the other day with like some like meme
caption. I'm like, Oh, yeah, no, no, it goes meme almost every time. I mean, part of it is.
I don't think they know where it came from. I think they're just got random picture.
No, no, a bunch of people are just like, um, I got a bunch of people saying like, this is AI.
I was like, Adam gets comments about that with his face. Like we get comments on our
videos all the time where they're like, that brown guy looks real, but the other guy looks AI.
Yeah, it's usually when I'm getting really monotone that that we had a whole TikTok where like six
people said I was clearly a skinwalker, which I learned what that is. I don't know. I gotta get
more more intonation. I'm always like, is that a compliment? Like, it should be
because AI people look perfect, you know, so I think you should take as a compliment.
Yeah, what's going to say? I mean, most AI people I see now all the latest models,
I mean, they all look great. There's not a lot of ugly people AI models being pumped out.
Yeah, what's your I've not heard you really talk about the AI stuff, like the just generative AI.
I mean, part of it is because like, I don't have any special insights there. I'm just a happy
consumer. And not only am I a happy consumer, I'm even perhaps like a slightly conservative
consumer when it comes to that. I mean, we haven't shoved AI into every crevice of the applications
we make because I have yet to see a lot of useful examples of that being done in say productivity
or an email. Most of the cases like, hey, summarize these boring emails. I find actually
vaguely dystopian that we're going to have a bunch of AI's like writing each other because
we just can't tell it straight. Like, I'm going to tell the AI to write some bullshit for me.
Here's the five bullet points. Could you just send me the five bullet points?
Like, that's what I'm going to my AI turn it back into anyway. And now we're playing in
telephones where AI is probably going to get it wrong about 15% of the time, at least.
And that just seems a little silly to me. And also, it doesn't seem that useful. So, I mean,
for me, the thing that blows my mind is, is a, it's ability to be a peer programmer.
Even though I almost want to chug it in the bin when I sneeze for the 500th time, someone goes like,
programmers are now already obsolete. I just hired my co-founder, a cursor AI,
like, jeez, have you tried to use it for anything real? Again, I'm impressed by what it does at the
same time, utterly annoyed by the hype cycle that comes with it. But maybe this is just how it goes
with everything. And then I think it's the gen AI stuff that blows my mind, as you said. Like,
how is this person not real? Like, the ones that just came out where they had a string of images of
women given presentations at, like, TED Talks or something? Yeah, yeah. I zoomed in. I was like,
what's the tell? I was like, I can't find the tell. I would have to spend, I think it was something
like arm flap folds or something like that was supposed to be the tell. Now, like, all the flaps
aren't exactly, I was like, wow, it's gotten good when we're down to flaps. We're not even counting
fingers anymore. Because the angle of the flap is a little off. So that's why I don't talk about
it that much, because I don't feel like I have any unique input to offer beyond perhaps just the
temperance that comes with the fact of having seen more than a handful of hype cycles,
self-driving cars. I think it was a great example of that, right? And we all got, I got quite excited
about that in 2017 when Elon was like, at the end of the year, your Model S is going to be
a taxi earning you money. It's actually financially irresponsible not to buy a Tesla right now.
It's going to be printing money, driving other people around. It's like, that didn't quite happen,
did it? Well, at the same time, then whatever, the FSD 12.5 is actually pretty impressive. It's not
fucking a money printer driving around doing the things. And this is now where whatever,
eight years later, very hard to predict when these things tip. But I think the reason we
wanted you to have you on here was you've been talking a lot more about Linux on the desktop,
which I've been like a lifelong Linux on desktop person. It's been like 12 years, I think so far.
But yeah, we just want to hear about, it's like, what got you into that? This is a new thing for
you. Like, what's the story behind all this? It is a new thing for me to run Linux full-time
on the desktop in anger as my primary offering system. And it came about also out of some anger.
The final straw, the motivating sort of light to the fire here was Apple. And I've been,
I was going to say a happy Apple fan. I think that's fair to say, actually, for 20 years,
about 20 years, a little more than 20 years. Not only was I a happy Apple fan, I was an Apple
evangelist. And that came about in part by very much a replay of what's just happened. In the
mid to late 90s, I was a very reluctant Windows user. I was actually kind of a pissed off Windows
user because I was using Windows because it felt like that was the only option, but I didn't like
it. I didn't like anything about what Microsoft stood for in those days. I didn't like the leadership
of Microsoft. I didn't like the choke off their air supply, business tactics that they were applying
to Netscape and the other competitors they had at the time. I didn't like the overly smug,
I want to punch you in the face look of Bill Gates when he was sitting for the deposition at the
antitrust cases. I just, I didn't like any of it. And I thought like, I'm begrudgingly using this
operating system because I simply feel like there is not a realistic choice. And maybe there
will be a bunch of Linux people too. Well, Linux was already great in 95. Yeah, it wasn't for me.
I had friends using Linux back then. And what I saw didn't win me over. Let's just put it like
that. And then 2001, I believe it is, rolled around. Apple rolls out the new Mac OS, OS 10.
I think it was what was it? Puma 10.1 or two or three. I forget what whichever version was out in
2001 was the one I hopped on. And I hopped on to that because for the first time it felt like there
was a credible alternative to Windows that I could use as the web developer and as a general
computer user without being like this super nerd that was going to figure out Linux on the desktop.
And I thought, you know what, isn't this the best of both worlds? I get to use like a BSD-based
operating system. That's kind of like, it makes it's the same ethos. Underneath the technical
underpinnings, this is why I don't have to install an antivirus system within the first five seconds
of putting the computer short of it getting taken over by some botnet. So there were all these
advantages to it. There were all these advantages when working on open source software. I was already
working with Apache and MySQL and picking up Ruby a few years later at PHP. All that stuff was just
better on a Unix-based setup. Now, there were about a million trade-offs nonetheless. That original
version of Mac OS I ran ran on an 800 megahertz power PC with 256 megabytes of RAM and it sucked
in terms of performance. It was so much slower than what Intel and Windows were able to put out
and I still didn't care. I was like, I'm just happy to have some alternative here that gets me out
of Gatesland and I pushed on that for the next 20 years and didn't really realize that I was
getting slowly boiled. Apple went from being the ultimate underdog in 2001 who saw an interest for
them to be a good partner to developers, to be emphasizing and assisting and doing all these things
for people who wanted to build software, especially for the web. And then slowly, but sure, well,
actually not that slowly. Suddenly, they had a much bigger platform on their hands after the
iPhone got released and that platform introduced the concept of the App Store. And that to me,
if I was going to pinpoint a moment when we look back upon this history, everything started to go
to shit was when the App Store and native apps started taking off. Now, that's a perhaps a weird
thing to say because in many other ways, this idea of having mobile supercomputers in our pocket
that can run this incredible software, video games, I mean, I used to be a big gamer, they go run
video games at 120 FPS with graphics that would shame even the wildest, craziest, dedicated PCs
of the 2000s. That's amazing, right? And that's true, but it really put the squeeze on developers,
freedom, and independence. And kind of that kept building to a crescendo first when we
launched hate.com, our email service back in 2000 and 2020. When we put that out there and got that
dreaded, no, I'm just remembering this, I had forgotten all about the hay and apple stuff.
Yeah, I haven't. I'll tell you that because we had literally spent two years almost at that point
developing the system, millions of dollars poured into it. I had slaved away for many hours developing
the system. We were incredibly proud that we were going to take on Gmail with a fresh new system
based on thinking from 2020, not 2004. And we thought that was going to be the big boss, right?
We're going to take on Google with an actually quite good email system, Gmail is a good system.
It's dated, it has issues, whatever, but it's a good system and it's free. And we're going to
come in and say, you know what, you should pay for email. What? So already that had long odds,
but we didn't even get to begin that fight before a bigger boss showed up and just like Apple sat
down on our chest and said, give you, you're going to give me your lunch money and 30% of
everything your own in perpetuity going forward. And we're like, what? No, no. So that led to a big
fight over multiple weeks where the future, the life of that new service hung in the balance.
Because the reason Apple has all this power is that they have all the economic activity,
at least in the US. What we eventually found was for our email system, hey.com, 85% of those of the
paying users we have, they use Apple products. So if you were shut out of Apple's Garden of Eden,
it was going to be dead. There wasn't going to be a business. There was going to be 15% left,
and you just can't build a competitive business in there. So that's where the whole antitrust
thing comes in. But it was also for me just a wake up call. Okay, the pod has been boiling for
several years. I had already been, I had already, well before we even introduced, hey.com, I testified
in front of a congressional field hearing in Colorado where they were looking into all these
antitrust matters. And going like, hey, here's my perspective on this. Things are not going in
good direction. Developers are getting squeezed in all sorts of different directions. The guidelines
of an app store is dictating the kind of businesses that can exist in the world because of this
economic activity issue. That's not a good place to be. In fact, we should look at the internet
as a far better alternative model for both application distribution, but for business formation,
for independence, for freedom, all these things. And then I got my own kind of fight with Apple.
And you don't want, even that wasn't enough. I fucking still bought, I was going to say. And
like three or four more MacBooks. So I mean, I think that goes to tell you A, how sticky platform
choice really is. And B, that Apple does make good stuff. Oh, their hardware is so incredible.
Their hardware is really good. I have found since that, even though that point is true,
I was a little myopic. There are actually other people making really good interesting
hardware. They don't make the same if you want this sort of millimeter unibody aluminum case
stuff that Apple does so well. Apple does that better than anyone else. But there are different
things you can choose to focus on where you can actually end up with something better.
Repairability and expandability. And there are other parts of the hardware experience
that can be better. What are the laptops? I'm blanking on the name. I've seen you talk about
these. They've got like modular. Are you using a framework currently?
I am. Framework is my laptop. It has been my laptop. That was actually, I mean, I know it's a
little long winded here, but this is how we get to the story of how I ended up on Linux,
because it was frameworks fault. And I use that currently. I also have a desktop PC. I mean,
the other thing I realized was Apple does their stuff really well. And they also charge proportionally,
maybe they would say, but I mean, I had a specked out MacBook Pro. The last one I bought was an
M3 Max something. I think it was $3,500 or $3,700. Whatever it was, it was more than the cost of my
Dell precision with the latest fastest Intel chip, which either way is quicker than that
fucking M3 Max chip kind of work that I do, which is web work and running Ruby and whatever. It's
actually quicker than that. And then I also could buy a framework machine and add that on top.
Now, I fully understand there are a lot of people who like, I don't want to computers. I just want
to laptop and I want to run everything on it. So there's still advantages there, but it was eye
opening to see what was actually going on, because I really have for quite a long time just thought,
like, do you know what? I'm not in the market for anything not Apple, because I'm in the Apple world,
I'm running Mago as I'm deep in the ecosystem. That's the other way they get you, right? Like the
little bangs, little hooks. I was running the photo setup they have. I was going to call it
iPhone. I don't think it's called that anymore. Things are just called Apple photos and the
sinking and the all the things and all the historical data you have, it's like impossible to all the
data was embedded with it. Before we introduced a calendar, I had my calendar and Apple calendar.
Before we introduced a email, I was using Apple's own email client. So there was just a lot of
hooks in it, but one by one, those hooks were already coming out. I mean, hey email and hey
calendar took out two or perhaps the biggest one I had been used to that's sinking of things back
and forth. Now we had hey clients on both email and or on mobile and desktop. There was still some
and I had to sort of pry him out like thongs, right? It took a little while and for a while,
that's the amazing thing when I look back upon this. This just happened by the way, right? I just
switched to Linux full time in what February or March and it already feels like it's been five
years, but I still do remember those dark spring days trying to get out of the ecosystem and thinking,
I don't even know if I can do it. I didn't even know if I want to do it. Oh, it just seems so
impossible. There's so many things blah, blah, blah. And then I spent, well, first I got hooked
and the way I got hooked was I was like, all right, I don't want to use Apple stuff anymore.
The final straw was when Apple in their sort of malicious compliance way said we're going to pull
PWAs, the standard for making web applications out of Europe and we're going to rip it out of
Safari because that's the way we choose to interpret what the European Union is doing with their
interest drive. And I thought, I just built another app that sort of depended on PWAs.
We had built a app called Campfire under this one.com umbrella where we will sell you a web chat
system, kind of like a slack in a box for a single fee. And part of that setup was we were not going
to make native apps. We were going to lean on the web and we were going to lean on PWAs and we
were going to lean on all this stuff. And then Apple like literally two weeks later went like,
we're going to take the PWAs support that we barely just introduced out of the whole thing
and we're going to screw over the entire ecosystem. And I just went like, I can't buy another iPhone
after this. I can't buy another MacBook because if I in this position of almost infinite privilege
in terms of resources and whatever, if I can't even make it to switch, then I should just roll
over and accept that Apple owns all. And I don't want to do that. Then, all right, let me just
go back to my native Danish roots and grow potatoes for some things and bacon or whatever else.
I don't even freaking know. I just don't want to do computers anymore. That's really actually
the point it got to. That was the final motivating point, which is insane that that is the level
of pressure it needs to bring that like, I don't know if I want to do computers anymore.
As a profession, as a business, because I felt like the reason I got so, or have been so excited
about computers and loved working with computers was the internet. And why was it the internet?
Because it was a free platform of distribution. I didn't have it to ask anyone for permission
to launch Basecamp back in 2004. We bought a domain name. We pointed that at an IP address,
running a server and voila, we're business and anyone who shows up to Basecamp.com
can buy our project management system. And if no one shows up, that's no one's fault by my own,
right? Like, my faith is in my own hands. That's not true with native applications anymore.
Your fate of your entire business is in the hands of Apple bureaucrats, who every single time you
submit an update, go, "Me, I don't like it. I just call it blue. It's a little too blue,
which, yeah, good. And then you submit again. Yeah, yeah. Sorry. I brought you the right color
blue. I still don't like it. Just sign up screen. Like the font is too small. And you're just like,
it's like begging some petty, inconsistent tyrant for the right to grow wheat. And I'm like,
are we fucking back in 1506? What the hell is going on here? I don't want to be that kind of
peasant. I want to own my own land stat here, right? And do you know not allowed that? And I just saw,
like, how are we going backwards? How do we go from this glorious age where developers and software
businesses go have direct access to their customers? And we got to enjoy that for what seven fucking
years from the dot com bust until the iPhone was introduced. And then another dark ages was
introduced where we basically went back to, oh, no, you can't just distribute software. What are you
talking about? You need a publisher and that publisher needs to make a deal with a distributor
who needs to have a deal with blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it's like, again, no, I don't want
to do that. So anyway, very long story to now I have all this pressure going on me. It's either
not using computers anymore and fucking retiring with the potatoes and the pigs, or it's finding
another platform. And the first step I went was like, oh, let me see what my old art
enemy was up to these days. So I went back to Microsoft with an open eyes and I thought, you know
what? People change. I mean, it's been 20 years, 25 years actually at that point. Well, 23 years,
let's call it that since I last ran Windows sort of proper. And there's a new Boston town.
And I hear good things about like what he's doing. And I like the investments they've done into
a VS code. I like their stewardship of GitHub. I like a lot of things. Like maybe this Microsoft
is not the same thing anymore. And I showed up and I ran Windows for a couple of weeks and even
said, you know what? This is it. I'm switching to Windows. And then, and then I was running
Windows on this framework laptop. And I was like, I guess I could make this work, but it was kind
of begrudgingly, right? Like I was like, ah, shit, I still don't really love Windows. I found a new
respect for it. I'd say first, I used to think, you know what, there's no way I can enjoy doing
what I do on a Windows machine. And I was in the day, days prior to WSL. Yeah, before the Windows
subsystem for Linux, when the Windows subsystem for Linux, especially WSL 2 is really effing good.
Like the amount of steps it takes from you to have, I have a Windows machine to I'm running Ubuntu
inside of it. And it actually mostly kind of works. There's a little bit of the
file system barrier. You have to finagle around. But it's actually quite good. That was really a
revelation. And I thought, oh, this is why I can make it last. But then I installed Linux on this
framework laptop. And the first thing I noticed was, holy shit, it runs faster. Like I just ran my
Chrome's bitometer 2.1 test and I'm like, Jesus, why is it 15% quicker? Why am I getting 15% more
juice out of this CPU that's inside of it? Huh. And then I thought, like, that really is nagging
at me. And I thought, you know what, maybe I'll give Linux a try. First, I ran into a bunch of
issues. Like the original framework 13 screen was of a dimension set where if you ran it at 100%,
the font was too small and it didn't look right. And if you ran it at 200%, everything was a
little big. And I was like, that's not quite right either. And I just went through all of these
steps of finding, Oh, I like something about Linux. Oh, I don't like that thing about Linux.
And I spent maybe five weeks just going like, all right, do you know what, I'm going to,
I'm going to learn this. I'm going to figure it out. I'm going to get a desktop. I'm going to
get a framework. I'm going to set it all up. And I spent like two of those weeks battling with
Nvidia drivers trying to get them to work with my Apple six K XDR display, which by the way,
spoiler alert, it never will. It won't. I went through about 400 layers and wild goose cases,
trying to decompile things and kernel flags and whatever. Don't do that. Don't put yourself
through that. Just buy an AMD graphics card. If you're not doing literally top tier gaming that
requires a 490, then the AMD stuff is awesome. It works out of the box with a six K XDR display.
I could have saved myself two weeks, but I still like the journey. And I like the journey because
Linux was a challenge. And I think Linux still is a bit of a challenge. I mean,
it's funny. I just posted something yesterday about this where I said like, hey, do you know what,
I think more developers should run Linux because it's a challenge. You learn a lot about how it
works. It's not as straightforward and paved as Windows is or Mac OS is. And then I get the
normal stance Linux does. What are you talking about? Ubuntu is just as easy as Mac OS. You're
like, I mean, come on, let's get real. It just isn't. It just isn't. I'm glad you got your grandma
set up with Ubuntu and she's running Firefox and she doesn't need anything else. That is awesome.
And I'm not disputing that. But for a lot of normal software, like if I was going to convince
my wife to run Linux, yeah, I was not going to do that. She just uses too many apps and they're
too specific. And I'm like, I'm not like, Hey, babe, do you want an adventure in setting up like
your webcam? She's like, no, I don't want that adventure. What are you talking about versus if
you are a developer, I think they're actually legitimate benefits. And maybe some of it is just
you kind of just acclimate to your environment. But I thought in just those six months that I've
been using Linux full time, I've gotten far more comfortable with Linux in ways that are
pushing me on like, what are we doing on the server? And this is what I see as one of those
main benefits. Anyone who works in web development today, they may work on a Mac, but they deploy
on Linux. No one is fucking deploying on a Mac box. They're not deploying on a Windows box either.
I know there are some people actually literally doing that, but like 95% of the internet runs on
Linux. And if you are a developer working with the web, I think you owe it to yourself to understand
what's going on. And I don't think that the cloud is able to pave over that experience to a degree
that is helpful for you. And I also think it locks you into a bunch of overpriced premium
AWS wrapper services that you'd be better off without. That's a mission I'm pursuing. But
regardless, Linux is a little bit more of an adventure, but holy shit, what an awesome adventure
it is. And what an incredible oasis you're able to arrive at. That was what actually blew my mind.
I didn't know legitimately if you spent the time to set it up, Linux could be not just good,
but here I'm really going to go out and limp better. And again, I am biased at this point.
I accept it. But I like the Linux setup I have today better. I'm not like making do with scraps
here. I like it better than what I had on Mac OS. That's pretty freaking incredible. I'm not saying
against it's better for everyone. I'm not going to force my wife to convert to Linux tomorrow
for the reasons we talked about for me as a developer, Linux is better. And that was quite
the revelation. I mean, I literally legitimately did not know. I still had an idea of Linux that
was based in what 2009 or something. That wasn't that wasn't accurate. My mental model was out of
date. And I got a I got a nudge. Thank you to explore modern day Linux looks like. And not only
was it better in terms of economics, not only was it better in terms of sort of the infrastructure
plumbing, not only need to talk around about 400 million times better. But it could also look
amazing. I mean, discover Linux porn was actually kind of cool. I don't run a Linux
porn setup, but I took a lot of inspiration from that. When I finally compressed all of this
journey, exploring all the Linux tools and whatever into sort of my take on what a great
out of the box Linux experience should look like for developers, which is what ended up
becoming Amakub. Amakub, which is what I want today, which is Ubuntu 2404 underneath. And then
a layer on top that is aesthetic personalization or not even personalized customization. And a
bunch of things installed just out of the box, make the Linux experience feel like it's incredible
without having to sign up for 140 hours of YouTube, Linux, nerdery videos and tutorials and like,
oh, you have to compile this thing with 400 different flags, then it works with the other
thing. Someone just do that. And like, I ended up doing it. And sorry, like, let's share. And
that's where I am today. I am running Linux full time. I freaking love it. I'm doing it on a
framework laptop on a Dell precision desktop. And I even got into freaking mechanical keyboards
because of it. And then I put all of it into to Amakub and released it. And now I'm on the
evangelical trail trying to at least give other Mac users an invitation that there is life
outside of Apple's garden. And it's quite pleasant in a lot of ways. It's not the same.
And this was one of the actually hurdles I had to get over. When I first switched to Linux,
I was like, okay, the text that I have on my Mac is called textmate. It has a certain theme.
It looks a certain way I run all Hallows Eve and like all the keywords are exactly like this.
And it's been drilled into my brain that this is what code looks like. This is what code feels
like. So the first thing I tried to do is replicate textmate in VS code on Linux. And you can get
about like 96% there. And I was ready to blow my brains out over the last 4% because it was total
uncanny valley. It was just like, yeah, everything is the same old. It's not. And then we just get
frustrated and they're just like, I should just go back to the Mac. Why am I let it? Why am I making
do with something that's only 96% as good? I could just swallow my pride and come crawling back to
Saint Cook. But I was not going to do that. I was going to stick with it. And I realized
the way to stick with it was to make it king cut do something else. So the first thing was like,
all right, I'm not going to, I'm not going to run text, man, I'm not going to try to replicate
text. Man, I'm going to give VS code a fair shake and I'm going to run it with a different theme.
And this was how I discovered Tokyo Knights, which. Yeah, that's what I used to.
We're just a team of all time. And then I set that up and I worked with it for a bit. I was like,
actually, VS code is not bad. Not text made. I miss a few things, but now it looks different
enough. It feels different enough. That is something else. But the final kicker that really got me,
like this is actually better. I was like, VS code, I was like, this is tolerable. I can see why people
like it. It's not text made. I miss a few things. But then I went to Neovin. There we go.
There we go. Right now, by the way, I think. And with Neovin, particularly through the
distribution of the lazy Vim setup, where everything comes pre-configured for you,
I went like, Oh, what? This is. Yeah. Nice. I remember some of the Vim shortcuts from literally
20 years ago, I think back in 2000, I was doing three PSD servers set up for some stuff. And I had
to learn to win motions to do that on the server. And I still fucking remember how to set the program.
And I also remember a couple of other things. And Neovin was basically like,
reactivating that ancient knowledge from the back of my brain. It's like the motions never
leave. They just take off space and maybe get to move to the attic at the back of your head,
but they're still there. And you can pull them out of the attic. And you go like, Oh, yeah,
actually, I can see why this editor that is literally 50 years old still has purchase on people.
And it was through that that led me to discover all these amazing Tuis. I mean, Tuis was even a
word that that's actually the nickname we use for for one of my boys, like a Tuis bird. I was like,
Oh, Tuis also terminal username face. And I discovered Neovin, then I discovered Lacy Git.
And I was like, Holy fuck, what even is this? It feels like I'm in a movie. Like the only in
mainframe or something. And there's just something incredibly appealing about that neo vintage,
neo nostalgia kind of look that isn't just about aesthetics, although it is also about that. And
this is, let me just make it quick aside here. There's a huge contingency of Linux super neck
beards or decks. What's no with aesthetics, right? Like it's, is that so they take pride in making
things as ugly as humanly possible with the worst color coordination you can imagine and about five
pencils in their pocket protector. Those people exist because that is why we have the links that
we have, right? Like that's the sort of the cement that we can then build upon. And that's great.
I really care about aesthetics though. I want a beautiful workstation. I want a beautiful work
environment. And Neovin together with all these Tuis like Lacy Git and whatever offered me a
more compelling aesthetic than the one I had on the Mac while also leveling me up in terms of
capabilities that to me is sort of that match made in heaven where it both looks incredible
and it feels incredible. And you're able to be productive with it. And now that I've been using
Neovin for quite a while now, I mean, you feel like a god. It's amazing. I sometimes do a set
of motions where I'm like making or selecting text inside of like a quote with like two commands.
And then I do whatever the thing where it's just like, I just got to stop. I'm just like,
did I just fucking do that? I just fucking do that. Or you're just like, this is incredible. Like,
I just benched a new record. Yeah, it like created a midi game to text editing. It's amazing. I've
loved it lately. And it's the best kind of game. It's one where like the payoff is actually literal
productivity that you can deposit towards goals that you have in life, like building businesses
and so forth, right? It's not just sort of wankery for its own sake. So anyway, all that led to
first being a reluctant Linux user, almost like a Mac OS refugee. I just need to find a tent
somewhere where the wind is not too harsh and whatever. I'll make do on this rock until realizing
you know what? You could just walk five feet further. There's a fucking oasis down here. And
there's got them coconuts and pineapple and just everything is flowing. How did I not know this?
This is actually the reaction I had. I knew about Neovin. I had never heard of Lacey Git.
And I was like, how the fuck did I go 20 goddamn years? Not knowing that like this entire universe
existed just around the corner, just around the corner. Yeah, I could even have been running it
on Mac OS. I mean, a lot of these two tools, they run just fine on the Mac too. I just even didn't
know. Yeah. So that's where I just got more and more grateful for the entire expedition,
because it was taking me to foreign lands and foreign experiences. And I liked a lot of it.
And now I've ended up in a place where I love my computer more than I have loved the computer
in at least 15 years. The last time, and this is both on the software and hardware side,
on the hardware side, the last computer I really loved, I mean, I don't know why.
So this is why does love work the way it does? It was the MacBook Air 11 inch that ran the
shittiest Intel chip I think you could buy at the time. So it was woefully underpowered,
but it just, it felt right. Like the size of it was right, the screen of it was right.
I love that computer for many years and I carried it for many years and was my primary
development tool for many years. Then the MacBook Air came in and first we went through the
awful five years in the desert with the butterfly keyboard, where at our company,
30% of all laptops we bought ended up broken. That's an incredible failure rate. Within two years,
we did the math. Over 30% of them had to go back for repairs, some of them multiple times,
you never really got to work proper and Apple was just like, you're typing it wrong. I was like,
I don't think that's the problem when 30% of us are ending up with that. So you went through that,
right? And then we got to actually did the best place Apple has ever been in. They went back on
that, they went back on ports, they introduced legitimate steps forward with the M chips and
efficiency. And you ended up with a product that was really good and also really boring and boring
in the ways that something that is too perfect can be. I think this is one of the reasons why
there's such a surge or interest in imperfection. Why do people like a manual stick sports car?
Why did they like vinyl records? Why do we like mechanical watches? Why do we like these things that
are objectively worse than their counterparts? Oh, you can get a automatic transmission. It'll
shift smoother than you. You'll get better gas mileage. You can get a quartz watch for $20
that'll beat the accuracy of any role likes you can buy. Yeah, but also no. And that's what I found
when I found with that framework 13 laptop, I was like, do you know what? This has quirks,
weird, interesting quirks. It's not perfect. But the things it's good at, it's really good at.
First, a reminder that keyboards really fucking matter. Holy shit. Again, I'd only been in
Mac land and I was like, actually, this Mac magic keyboard is fine. It's great. I don't know if I'd
say that. It's fine. Why do I need anything else? And then you try a framework laptop. It has 1.5
millimeters of travel, which is basically like what the old power books I think used to have the
Apple laptops of the mid 2000s. And like, holy shit, this feels so much better. What? I didn't
know that that Matt, why does half a millimeter or 0.7 millimeters of travel matter? Oh, oh, yeah,
oh, yeah, it really does. Matt displays. I was like, Oh shit, I remember the power book that had
the math display. Matt displays are really nice for programmers. It just fits text rendering much
better. Maybe it's not as good to watch a blockbuster movie on, but it's great for text entering three
by two aspect ratio. Holy shit. What have I been doing in just 16 10 69 land? That is a weird
elongated optimized for just consumption kind of display. That's not what I use my laptop for. I
use it for to make stuff. And when I make code 3.2 or 3 by 2 aspect ratio is much nicer. So there
were all these advantages on top of the upgradability framework came out with a new freaking screen,
like whatever month ago. Yeah, the 16 inch, right? You could buy the screen by itself and replace
it on your freaking laptop. I was like, what's crazy? You mean, I don't have to buy a whole new
computer just because I want the newer display as an Apple user. That's just insane. That sounds
impossible. I mean, I have literally, and I'm not proud of this. I'm actually ashamed. I have four
MacBooks sitting in my closet. And the reason why I have more four of them was I wanted the fastest
chip. Every time you wanted a newer chip, you had to buy a whole new goddamn computer. Yeah,
I wanted whatever. There were some upgrade to the screen that came out at one point by a
damn new computer. It's like, this doesn't feel quite as if you have bad when you see all that
stuff piling up in your in your closet. Yes. And then now I have my my framework. I've upgraded
the RAM. I think it came I think I bought it with like 32 gigabytes. It was like 200 and some
dollars to buy 96 gigabytes of RAM off Amazon. And I could just plop it in. I bought obviously
the new display for it. I upgraded the battery capacity in one of them too. It came with a 51
one hour battery and they had a newer 61 that gave you another 10% battery. Like, holy shit,
I'm still keep I still have the original one that I knew to that's really cool. So I fell in love
with that framework laptop. And to me, then the pair of the two framework, Plaza. I'm a coop.
That is the Linux version that I had tingled and optimized really felt like this is this is
incredible. So that's where I am right now. I mean, really happy with the Linux setup and just,
I don't know if I'm angry or disappointed. I'm just a little like, I kind of wish I knew this like
four years ago. Like, I should have done this in 2020 when Apple was just like, we're going to
break your kneecaps here. That should pay us 30%. That should have been the signal worth like,
Oh, shit. Why am I still here? Just like it was when the original I book came out in 2001,
I was like, why am I still on Windows? If there is an alternative and it's good enough, I should
switch. So yeah, that was that was that was. Yeah, that transitions painful. But like you said,
it's you can get to a better place on the other side. And I think there's a lot of technical
details. But I think what it comes down to me is, you know, I sit at my desk and there's things
sitting here and my whole life is coming through it. Like, it's what helps me provide for my family.
It connects me to the whole world, everything. And knowing how that thing works, like deep,
having deep customization of it and like feeling that harmony with it, like it's just good for
your soul, like beyond any of the technical details. And kind of when you get there,
it's hard to explain to other people, but you really feel a lot more connected with this
really important thing that's, you know, sitting on your desk every day.
It's funny, I'm reading, I don't know if I started at right at the same time. I don't even know if
I was an accident or just a serendipitous. I mean, reading the book, The Sen and the Art of
Motorcycle Maintenance. I knew that's what you're going to say. It's so many parallels to that
point. It's exactly to the point of, do you just want to be a consumer? I mean, this is a story
about writing motorcycles in the 70s. And they needed a fair amount of tender love and care to
keep them running. And you needed to know about timing chains and how to oil things and tighten
things and whatever. And in the book, he makes a very compelling argument for exactly what you say,
that there is just a satisfaction in the soul of knowing how the things you interact with on a daily
basis even depend on work at least at a basic level. And I find that Linux just forces you down
that path because there is a few more timing belts you have to tighten yourself. And it is good to
know where they are and what the commands are and so forth. But what you come out on the other side
as is a more knowledgeable, experienced, comfortable and confident technologist. And I think that is
in great lack right now. And where I see it, hugely is in this discussion about the cloud.
So cloud technology and services and platforms as a service have convinced an entire generation
of developers that connecting your own service to the internet is way too fucking scary.
It's like running that motorcycle backwards blindfolded on one hand. Like that's just fucking crazy.
That's for evil, can evil shit to connect your own computer to the internet. I was like, wait,
what? How did that become to be the case? Why are we so afraid of connecting computers to the
internet? And I think a lot of it is based on, first of all, outdated mental models. I mean,
anyone who's been around technology, as I said, there was a time where if you bought a new Windows
machine and you connected to the internet and you hadn't already set up the antivirus stuff,
you could give it five minutes and it would be infected. That's kind of a man time ago.
And Linux was never like that. And I think those mental models haven't fully updated. And then
the cloud providers have literally put in billions and billions of dollars to scare the living
but Jesus out of anyone from connecting computer to the internet. Because if someone realizes
that they can do that, they will realize that a lot of the cloud machinery is insanely overpriced,
that it's an economic model of renting versus owning that they actually don't appreciate,
that it's a surrender of independence and whatever else that isn't very flattering.
And Linux, I think, is the antidote to some extent. If you run Linux on the desktop yourself,
you will be familiar enough with the basics of, oh, UFW as a firewall, for example,
is actually super easy to use. It has one of the best user interfaces for any firewall I've
ever seen. It's super quick just to say like, hey, lock the shit down so I can only access
is on 22. Oh, this is a web server, open up 80 and 443. That's it. Done. Oh, yeah. Okay,
turn off password authentication, only SSH keys. And now you have fucking four knocks.
Good luck getting into that. If you could get into a box that is set up like that,
it has UFW running, it locks down to just those three ports and you switch from password authentication
to SSH key authentication. If you get into one of those, if you can get into a box like that,
I mean, you just want the fucking lottery. You have a zero day. I mean, you can sell that
to North Korea or China or make them bid on it and boom, five million cases. So that's the sort of
basics, right? Like, it's actually not that difficult to secure a box. It's not that
complicated to run sudo apt upgrade. If you need to update something, you don't need to do it that
often. And also, by the way, didn't you just set up a fucking JavaScript interpolation deployment
compile pipelines that involved 700 megabytes of note modules across 5000 dependencies? And you
were able to figure that shit out. You're telling me you can't add one line of configuration to
the sss SSD demon, and you can't run uf w allow 22. Oh, no, that's too hard, man. Shit,
just way beyond my capacity. What man the fuck up? Oh, the fuck up. That's pathetic. That is
pathetic. And we can beat that shit out of you. We can do some server phobia reverse cognitive
behavior with you. You're gonna, okay, listen, listen, I know you're afraid of the server. It's
not gonna bite you. It is not gonna bite you hackers are not gonna get in there. But first,
let's expose you to Linux. See, here's a computer. It runs the Linux. You can touch it. It's okay.
Just put one hand on the spacebar and push it. Push it one time. See, nothing bad happened.
And I think that level of cognitive behavioral therapy, that's part of the reason why I'm excited
about things like on the coupe. Can we introduce that level to this generation of developers such
that they will realize that running computers on the internet is not some exotic dangerous
thing that's only for Linux wizards and neckbeards who've been doing it for 40 fucking years.
It's for you to never be easier. It's never been cheaper. And the stand you're able to take for
independence and pricing and all the other advantages that you get out of that is totally
worth it. Totally freaking worth it. It's nowhere near as complicated as figuring out how to make
a 1972 Yamaha motorcycle work or the timing belts. So we need to disabuse people of this nonsense,
which includes sort of addressing head on the fact that the AWS reseller model is incredibly
profitable. This is why all the VCs want to do it. There was just an announcement I think
yesterday about another web framework who also wants to be an AWS reseller. And I totally get it.
I totally get why VCs look at that. Wait, so you're telling me I don't even have to own computers.
I can just rent those computers and then rent them again to someone else. Oh, that sounds like a
I have no inventory. I have no staff. I have no nothing. I just mainly have to convince
developers that they're stupid and fragile so that they need my shit. And then I can just
run the money printer. Yeah, no, that's not the model of the internet that I'm interested in.
And again, I'm putting things to a point. I appreciate the advantages in developer economics.
Her Roku, for example, really did amazing pioneering work in the AWS reseller space. And they taught
the rest of us. Do you know what? Deploying to a server could be a whole lot easier and we
should make it easier. But to me, that is essentially shining a light on a part of the infrastructure
level of how we work with the internet that open source should then address. And it's not like,
Oh, you got to come up with Photoshop, right? That's the whole Photoshop versus gimp debate that.
Yeah, do you know what? Even as a now converted Linux fan, I can look at that and go like,
Yeah, gimp is not as good. I'm not saying gimp is bad. I'm just saying end user software like
Photoshop is difficult to make on this model. What's not difficult to make on this model
is got them infrastructure. All the best infrastructure in the world is open source
from Linux to MySQL to in genex to whatever all the entire stack, even the entire stack that's
being used in the cloud, it's all built on open source stuff. So this fact that we're going to give
up the last mile to a bunch of VCs and a bunch of close source commercial passes.
Fuck that. No, no, no. This is where we take up the mantle and go like, we can make this easy.
We can make this better. I've been trying to push that envelope with Kamal and deploy tools that we
used to build on top of Docker to get out of the cloud. We used to be in the cloud. We used to be
on AWS. We used to be on all this stuff for a bunch of hours, things with base commit. Hey,
and we yanked all of it out because cost was just getting ridiculous. And we built a bit of tooling.
And now I'm on a goddamn mission to make open source as capable, as easy to use as all these
AWS results we have against any box running basic Linux with an IP address you can connect to.
Yeah, I think I think beyond the fear that you described that people have actually,
there's another dimension to there's almost like a pride. I think there's like this
narrow definition of productivity where they're like, if I have to learn something,
like that's not productive. And they kind of have this literally narrow path of like,
I'm someone that loves being productive. I'm all about business. That means I like, you know,
value these things. But a lot of this stuff, like you said, like when you go and understand these
under underlying things, that does make you more productive in ways that are really hard to explain.
You get advantage in other places. So yeah, I think for me, it's more like there's a weird
pride with not knowing this stuff. I mean, that's like hard to shake people up straight out of
center in the art of motorcycle maintenance. The guy he's riding with is riding a BMW motorcycle.
And he explicitly takes pride in not knowing anything. Like, it's part of a core identity.
There's a whole philosophy in that book about why that is, why does that develop sort of our
struggle with modernity and the hardness of knowing everything and then essentially becoming
alluded not wanting to know anything and then developing an entire identity around that.
And I think that's really interesting. I also think it is sad when it comes to developers because
it is not internally consistent. It is not an internally consistent model of how do you become
a capable developer? Because first of all, as we've discussed, you're figuring shit out all the
time to make a JavaScript project from four years ago, compile requires a fucking PhD at this point,
right? Like in archaeology and whatever, you've got to dig out all these things. Oh, we're using
webmaster politics. Oh, that was in the ancient times of 2018, that we use tools like that to
compile those stuff. So if you're able to figure that shit out, don't tell me you can't
set up a Linux machine. They come pre-baked out of the box for most cases. There's very little
seasoning. You have to apply to that dish for it to be delicious and good and nutritious.
So I think it is weird and it's weird in fascinating ways of like, why is humans weird? And I also
think it's fixable. I think it's fat driven. And I think we can absolutely reverse course.
The cloud, when that was first introduced, sounded nuts, right? Wait, I'm going to rent computers
the entire time, even if I need them all the time from some other person who runs a everything store.
What? That sounds nuts. Why would I do that? And then a few years happening, again, we realized
that there were some real advantages to that. But a lot of it was also just like a mental
shift, right? A mental shift. And do you know what? Those things can shift back. And we can
knock things straight. And some of it is pendulum swing, right? When it comes to setting up servers,
I think the main shift for me is the difference between pets and cattle, right? Is this like your
loving, nurtured machine where you've tweaked out your little configs in a bespoke way and it
lives just on this box. And if you need another box, you're like, oh, this shit's going to take
me 20 hours to set that up. Or do you live in a cattle world where you're deploying containers?
And that's where all the interesting configuration happens and it's repeatable and it's scalable
and it's all these other things. Now, that pet versus cattle idea, which really got pushed forward
with the cloud, can totally work on your own stuff too, or work on dedicated machines or whatever.
So some of it is, is relaying the fact that you don't have to give up on modernity to understand
how things work. You don't have to give up on containerization to understand how a Linux box
can be connected to the internet. Like these things are actually not in opposition. And as we found,
when we moved out of the cloud, we had a team of about 10 people on our ops team and a bunch of
them were cloud native specialists. That was their main thing. Then we moved out of cloud on to our
own stuff and they could retain like 90% of their skills. 90% of the system administration work was
the same whether we own the boxes or we rented them from Amazon. And I think that's the part
a lot of folks are appreciating. They're thinking, wait, computer, does that mean it's running in
your basement? How do you secure that? Do you have a baseball bat down there in case someone tries
to break in and get it? What even is it? No, that's not how it works. There are professional
data centers that you just rent a space for and then you put in your own computer and there's just
some basic education here where I kind of feel like it's like we're discovering an ancient
civilization and people going, how the fuck did they build those pyramids, man? I don't even understand
how the snow gets up there and wait like 100 tons. Like what kind of space is technology?
And then the people built the pyramids which is like, hey, man, I'm like 45. We did it like
nine years ago. This is ancient technology that we need archaeologists to figure out. It probably
wasn't fucking aliens either. Like we knew and we know how to do it. The people are still alive.
The people who set up the internet, as you know it today, which was set up not on hyperscalers but
by individual companies owning computers and connecting them to the internet, they're still
fucking alive. There's kind of a lot of them too. And we can rediscover that. We can rediscover that
and we'll be better off for it if we do. And a bunch of the advances we've had in technology
since then have actually made it easier to do that. When I got started with the internet,
well, not even the internet, let's just say, when I got started with base cam, when we launch
base cam, we launch base cam on an Intel Celeron one core, I think, CPU with 2.8 gigahertz. Is that
right? Something like that, right? One fucking core, one 2004 core, by the way. That shit was slow.
I mean, by modern standards, two orders of magnitude faster, I just bought a hobby box from
Hetzner, just to rent and play with an experiment, right? 48 cores, hyperthreading, 96 vCPUs for $220
a month. What? What? The amount of computing power that's in that machine could operate,
probably 95% of all SAS businesses that exist in the world. And napkin math that I did yesterday
on Twitter said, like, you know what, we probably only need like five of those boxes to run all
a base cam, which is a SAS company doing tens of millions in ARR. Computers have gotten insanely
fast and capable and productive. And you wouldn't know half the time if you're dealing with a reseller
of a reseller of perhaps a reseller of AWS, because that shit is still expensive. I mean,
Heroku, again, I love Heroku, and I'm just gonna bang them, then I'm a little bit like,
well, literally charge you like 200 bucks for like half of a vCPU and two megabytes of RAM.
That's a little over the top. But hardware is really good, really fast, and it's getting faster
and cheaper like all the fucking time. Moore's law, once you look at multi core setups is very
much alive, should be should be getting twice as fast at half the cost in no time at all. And it is,
except if you buy it from a reseller of a reseller. Yeah, the the point about the tools working,
like the cloud tools, like also all those things being retained. That's a good one. So I work on
infrastructure as code stuff. And all of our tooling was developed for deploying cloud services,
right? So there's good ideas there, like declaratively defining config, like, you know,
applying that. And we realized the other day, we can just point all the same stuff to like a
Docker daemon running on a machine. And it all works exactly the same. So all the great benefits
that we kind of invented in the cloud, you can just use that same model, anywhere. So yeah,
it's quite a different experience. And I was at a post the other day, I was remembering the first,
my first company, I actually launched it off my laptop. Like it was, I was like, it was a Wi-Fi,
it was like a Wi-Fi laptop, right? And this was like in 2010. Eventually, we moved that to servers
in my parents basement, like literally my parents basement. And we sold the company at that point.
And I remember like the first thing they did, they were like, yeah, we need you guys to move that.
I was probably not secure. But I actually did build and sell a company of that.
We had a dog, you know, yeah, it was dusty down there. The servers are still there too. I could
probably still use them. But but yeah, like, you know, I did build and sell a company that way.
It's a lot better these days to do something like that, though.
It is a lot better. And I think that that's also where these things are not an opposition of it.
I'm glad the cloud thing happened. I really am. I think it moved the ball forward in a lot of
ways of how to understand how to run things. Some of the conceptual models, the pet versus cattle,
the clarity of setups, all that stuff. We owe to the cloud. We owe to the billions and billions
and billions of dollars that got pushed into it. But we don't have to stay there, right? I like to
think of it a little bit sometimes, big pharma. So someone puts in a billion dollars to develop
a new drug. We should be thankful as humanity for that to happen. It is really expensive to do the
R&D. Lots of the R&D doesn't work. Even when the R&D does work, it goes through all these
clinical trials. They cost absolutely astounding sums of money to do. It requires investors to
underwrite all of that. And those investors will only do it if they occasionally get a slam dunk
with Simpec to pay it all off, right? Incredible. Equally incredible. The fact that patents expire
after 19 years, 18 years, and then shit goes generic. And after it's gone generic, the price goes to
essentially what it costs to produce the compounds, which is usually nothing, right? I mean, I guess
I can get as riled up as anyone about the state of the American health care system. But I can't give
that riled up about the idea that like a pill costs more than the chemical compounds it takes to
produce it because that's not the expense, right? Like the expense is developing the drug that works
and is safe and can be rolled out. And America just for whatever peculiar reasons ends up bankrolling
the whole world on this, right? Like Americans pay through the nodes for their medication. And
that's why we have all this medication. Anyway, so when all that happens, it's also amazing that
we have the forcing function of the generic threat, right? Like, first of all, it means that these
pharmaceutical companies can't just develop a drug and then the next 200 years milk it like
Mickey Mouse. Things will actually expire and they have to come up with new shit or they'll go out
of business. And just as important, the advances for humanity accrue to all at zero cost one shit
goes generic. That's the model we should think about with commercial software development and
cloud development. The cloud was on a patent for quite a while, and it developed a bunch of
cool new shit. And that's great. And we should be grateful for it. And I'm grateful for it.
But also now it's time to go generic. Now it's time for these advantages in developer
economics and deployment and containerization and of the wazoo to go generic system. We don't
have to pay rental fees until the end of fucking time. The internet today exists the way it does
because of open source software. There wouldn't be and I owed as many businesses if every goddamn
vendor wanted a per CPU license charge as though you were buying Oracle in 1998, right? Like that
was just going to seriously curb the dynamism of the entire economy. So we need to respect the
fact that the capitalist forces are pushing these things forward at the frontier. And that's
amazing. And I am a capitalist in that regard very much so. And I'm also a goddamn communist
when it comes to open source software and like that it all should be free and we should be fighting
to move more things generic and so forth. Those ideas, even if they sound contradictory,
they fit inside someone's head. They can fit inside someone head. You can wrestle with that
paradox and be better off for it by embracing both at the same time. But it is well overdue
that we go generic with the cloud nonsense. Yeah. I mean that resonates a lot with me.
The work that we do is like some of these resellers you're talking about. Sometimes they do come up
with cool ways to deploy stuff or you know, they come with stuff that we wouldn't have thought of.
And what we do is we take it and we just make it open source so that people can use it wherever
they need to. So there's like a it's a little antagonistic but there's also like a like a
harmony to it as well. Yeah. I think all capitalism the idea of capitalism is there's no permanence.
If you have permanence, it doesn't work. You need things to get destroyed. Yes. Yes. You need
the pencil. And you can't be a cook outless if you don't believe in that. And I think this is why
I've been so vocal about the cloud issue in particular because I've been seeing what looks
like the formation of new monopolies. And that is partly coming because these hyperscalers
are not operating in a traditional free marketplace because it is very difficult for companies to
actually switch. And again, it's been the promise of the cloud almost since day one. Oh, we're going
to use all these declarative conflicts and so forth. And you're going to be able to just like,
you don't like pricing in AWS. No problem. You just switch to GCP. You don't like that. You
switch to a sure. Yeah, no one's doing that. No one's doing that. And in fact, much of the
evangelism around the cloud is like you're not doing cloud right unless you're using all these
proprietary APIs. Unless you're fully taking advantage of the managed services and the serverless and
the this and the that and the other thing that is usually just peculiar and particular enough
to a single cloud vendor, you're not doing it right. And that's of course the maximum amount of
lock-in you will ever get on the business if once you go down the path of using bespoke, slightly
tailored, slightly different version of these open source tools that most of this stuff is built
on at AWS or or other places. We went through that. It took a fair amount of time to get out of the
cloud. It was not about just changing the IP addresses of sort of the Kubernetes deployment
target and then pushing the button and they're all working. Maybe one day we will get there. I
don't know. I think there's a very strong incentive from the hyperscalers for us not to get there.
They don't want a competitive marketplace. They don't want ease of migration or use of change
because that's going to bring pricing pressure. In fact, I just saw, I think it was yesterday,
that prices for the same amount of compute in total refutation of Moore's law is going up.
Like cloud is getting more expensive for the same amount of compute. That's fucked up.
Like that to me is an example of a captured market that's not responsive to the normal
competitive pressures of a functional market. I think we need open source for nothing else for
that. Pricing power becomes extreme when you have full control of the market. Just ask Apple.
We started out of that discussion. How the fuck are they able to take 30% of everyone's
business on the app store? Well, because they can and there's no other alternative for you if you
want to ship software to iPhones. If you can control a toll booth like that, the cloud providers
are not quite like that. They're a little more like a Roach Motel. You can check in. You just can't
check out. You need to make it like a regular hotel. You can check in and then you can stay
for a while and you can leave without it costing an arm and leg in the firstborn.
One thing I will say I disagree a little bit is I think if you are going to use a cloud,
if you're going to use one of the public clouds, if you try to use it in a way where you're just
trying to rent servers, you're going to have a horrible experience. Like it's way too expensive
to do that. If your approach is I'm renting servers, I'm going to run my own software.
Just don't use a cloud at all. Just go to like you said, that's stuff that you guys are using.
Go directly to data centers that offer renting the hardware directly. You can have a much better
experience. If you are going to use a cloud, you might as well like just commit to something,
like commit to using it properly. And then yeah, you can use the services high level services.
They're more expensive, but at least you get the benefit. I think it's this middle ground
where you like try to use a cloud in this agnostic way. That's just never going to work out at all.
So whatever model clicks for you, if you like console servers, just go
buy them directly. It's probably at least 10x cheaper, if not more.
That was my mental model and we used a lot of the managed services. We used RDS and that whole setup.
And unfortunately, I would say is that that's where you get reamed the worst.
The managed services on RDS and with the search was the other one we used, what was it called,
open search or something else AWS. I would actually wouldn't count both of those because
I guess what I've thought. So those are like just shitty repackaging of stuff that you can
just run directly. I actually thought they were decent in terms of economics. They did save us
some degree of some kinds of backups and whatever. It was a little bit there, but the upcharge was
so freaking insane. We were spending on RDS alone. We were spending more than half a million
dollars a year in rental fees. It cost us, I think, to replace that, like the hardware and setup,
we bought $125,000 worth of machine and then we owned those machines. Now, we still have to pay
for power and we still have to pay for some other, but holy shit, literally the payback on the machine
purchase was like five minutes. Five minutes of rental, we could buy all these huge honky
beasts of machines with amazing amounts of cores and rams and all the other stuff
and we just have to connect them to the internet. Again, there's something there. I'm not
disputing the fact that there are cases where the cloud makes sense. What I've usually said is,
especially if you have a huge dynamic range on peak to trough in terms of your usage,
like one day you're doing whatever, 100,000 requests a second and the next day you're doing
10. That is a huge range where you're going to have a bunch of idle servers sitting around
if you're going to build out your setups just that they can take it. So there is a tip of our
point with that dynamic range, I think makes sense. And then there's also a tip of a point
where you're not even using a whole machine. I just need to rent like 18% of a computer because
that's all I need right now. Yeah, the granularity. So there's some granularity there. And then I'm
also sure that there are other cases like access to specialized hardware is a good one. Good luck
trying to buy a bunch of H1s or H100s, whatever. The hyperscalers did have access to them and they
would rent it to you. So I think there are plenty of cases where it does make sense. I think the
my argument has been that the default case is not right. The default case being like,
hey, you should run cloud and everything and running your own shit is like trying to produce
your own power. That was one of the analogies that were used for a while. Well, are you in the
power production business? No, then you should just buy power from the socket. Are you in the
cloud data center business? No, therefore you should just yet that one doesn't hold. It doesn't
actually work. You are much closer to the same dynamics, whether you you rent it or you own it,
a lot of the difference just like is in the finance model and CapEx versus ZopEx and whatever. And if
you actually ran the numbers, you would be surprised. Now part of the irony here is it's
actually very, very difficult to run the numbers in the cloud. We had like FinOps. That's a cottage
industry. That's a whole thing. Yeah. Specializing in understanding your bill, if that is not a red
flag or red flag, I don't know what it is. It's just so complicated. I need specialists with
PhD and statistical analysis to just understand what I'm paying for. What? I mean, and we saw this
ourselves. We tried to, well, not just tried. We worked very hard to understand our bill,
like how to proportionate and what is that application spending? That was tens of hours
a month. Just trying to understand the bill. It comes up, it comes up all the time. Every other
month. And after we bought our own servers, yeah, that went away. That was just a whole category of
work that just disappeared. We did one big analysis when we bought all the servers we needed to get
out of the cloud for whatever. And it was like, I don't know, $5,600,000. Not an insignificant sum,
but like our cloud budget was $3.2 million. So like proportionally, not that big of a deal.
Anyway, we do that analysis once and then we're like, all right, CN five years. That's the next
time I'm going to worry about whether I need an AMD EPIC 9454 or a 9754. Like, yeah, I don't need
to do this every day, right? With the cloud, you kind of sort of do because if you don't,
it is so easy for these things to run away from you. The 3.2 million we had on our cloud budget
really should have been twice that at least. It would have been if we hadn't been Nazis about
chasing down the last penny and stopping all the right services and doing all the optimizations
and entering long-term contracts is the other thing that blows my mind. People have this
conception. Oh, the cloud is like just meter as you go. Yeah, no, no, it isn't. No one actually
using the cloud at scale is paying like per the minute. They are entering into at least one year
contracts on committed instances because that's the only way to get any pricing that makes any kind
of sense. On AWS's S3 service, we were in a four year fucking contract four years committed to
getting any pricing that sort of made sense. So there's a lot of contradictions and all this
stuff. Again, different businesses are different in different ways. And I'm not saying there's one
size that fits all here. I think there is an opening though for us to reconsider what the
default should be when you should start doing the calculations. And also, if you do know Linux a
little bit, the alternatives won't seem as foreign or as inconceivable as I think they do to some
companies, right, who have grown up in a cloud first world and have a team that's familiar with
instantiating new AWS services. And then they go like, what do you mean, Ethernet? Where?
Like that? That's fixable. Yeah. Yeah. So I think where we can agree on is like, I'm still
like, I use the cloud, have we like clicks for me? But what I don't like is the people that are
like, quote unquote on that side, don't know how to do the other thing. So it's just like, I can't
really trust your opinion, even though you're like on this side, because you're doing it out of
not knowing the other side. I've always had a home lab that I manage, would run whatever like,
I would use to expand my little like Kubernetes, with no math, like all the different registration
stuff. So I've seen how that stuff's progressed. And I enjoy it. Like I said, just like with my
desktop, it's, it's really good when you like curate that's a garden almost, running all the
services that power my family stuff. So like, I have a sense of that. So when I'm choosing the
cloud, I'm choosing it with like awareness of what I'm trading off and what I'm balancing.
I don't think that's what most people do. Yeah, I agree with that.
I don't think that's what most people are doing. No, most businesses are doing. They're not doing
it from like, Hey, I know how this works. If we're going to run ourselves, I know how to work
into cloud and like I can make the math work or I can make the economics work. That is not what
I'm seeing broadly. And I think that's a shame. And I think again, we can fix it. And I think part
of the fix literally is exposure therapy, getting more developers exposed directly to Linux,
so as to realize that the operating system, they're going to run their servers on is not this scary
alternate universe where everything is upside down. It's actually, first of all, quite familiar in
many ways. Like if you're a developer working on the Mac, the hop to Linux isn't like, if you were
a Windows PowerShell user and you didn't want to run WSL, okay, that's going to be a culture
shock of some mention when you hop into Linux, right? If you've been running on the Mac and you
run Homebrew and you're familiar with some of these tools, whatever, it's not like going to
a different universe. It is like going to perhaps a different continent, but they kind of still
speak a version of English, just kind of broken. I guess like Americans going to Australia and like
just going like, hey, mate, that's like the Linux version for Mac OS folks switching over. It's a
dialect, right? But the difference is in the dialect and the difference is realizing that this
is literally the same stuff as you run on the server that should make you far more comfortable
in thinking you can run it to without needing a PhD in Linux harden.
So I have a quick question for you. So this is a thought I had the other day because I
feel a lot of the same things you're talking about where I'm like, people these days don't
even know how to X. Yes, I am. And you remember when we were young, people would say that to us. So
like, are we just doomed to repeat this? Is this actually going to change? Is it actually different
this time? It's always different when it's your generation than young people are ungrateful and
the older one is stupid, right? It's kind of like driving in the highway. Anyone who drives faster
than you is a maniac and anyone who drives slower than you is a grandma. Perfect speed. How amazing
it worked out that way. I do think about that all the time. And exactly for the reasons that you
say, I remember when I started working with the web and I had a bunch of programmer friends and
those programmer friends were used to writing applications in a simpler in C. And a lot of them
had a very difficult time with something like PHP, where they just go like, that is literally
10,000 times as inefficient that for loop. As if I wrote it in a simpler and get a move and a
whatever X or I don't even fucking want to know. But they had a very difficult time adjusting to
that, right? I do try to think about that often when I go like, well, back in our days, when we
had to set up servers and connect them to the internet, like we walked barefoot in both directions
and smelled all the time. So you got to be careful not to turn into the literal Simpson's episode of
like the old man shaking at the sky. While at the same time, I'm also realizing that not everything
new is better. And then we've seen that over and over again in all sorts of domains where
I think it is a very healthy time or healthy instinct that we should constantly be pushing
forward. How can we make things simpler? How can we make them faster? And we should be using those
additional CPU cycles, for example, to make ourselves more productive. And this was actually
why I am so passionately angry at the cloud is because I felt like they didn't hold up their
end of the bargain. I did not feel like things got sufficiently easier that I was paid back
in additional productivity. We were never able to materially change the configuration of our
operations team. When they worked in the cloud, there were some things that were slightly different.
They weren't worrying perhaps about, hey, there's a warning here about the second PSU in this
sled that needs to be changed. That was not a warning they would get. That would just go to the,
I was about to call it cloud monkeys. We're all fucking problems. And someone in that
data center would run around and you would think, oh man, the computer is so sophisticated. No,
that's fucking just George. And George is spending with your damn CPU over that box and he's pulling
it out. You just don't know, don't George. George lives behind an API. Sometimes these big day
centers, there's only like, there's only like two people that are there, like on call. Yeah,
it's not even like a whole team or anything. There's some of that. And that's why I think I
would have, I mean, that's why I was a cloud believer actually for many years. I was very
passionate. Like, this is the way the future is going to work. We just need to get over this hump
that's going to be easier and cheaper. And I never fucking did. Never fucking did. That's why I'm
so mad. I tried for more than half a decade to find cheaper and to find easier. The only thing I
ever consistently found was faster. And I mean, faster in terms of procurement. It is still amazing.
I will grant that with one API call, it's been up like a thousand servers. It's gonna cost you
probably a house and a condo, but you can do it. That's pretty fucking cool. You can't do that
by going to delt.com and ordering a bunch of power edges, right? Like that's gonna take like a
week and a half, at least maybe two before they arrive and before they're racked. So that was always
there. But to me, it was always about the three things. It was supposed to be cheaper. It was
supposed to be easier. It was supposed to be faster. And it's only really the speed of procurement
that I saw at our business. Again, as we've talked about, there's different considerations
and different analysis you got to make on your own business. But I was just so disappointed
that the promised land never seemed to arrive, that when I look at setting up a new AWS installation,
when I read through the like, Hey, get started with AWS one on one, I went like,
this shit is off the scale complicated. Just even remembering like how I do the AM,
I am user management configuration in the cloud. I'm like, I feel like I have to go back to school
to study again, again, some of it's just different things. And you learn different things. And you
could say living is also complicated. Okay, yes. But also no, like there are different scales of
complexity. And I felt or I feel like the cloud in many ways did not help up its end of the bargain
that it promised us simpler. And we didn't get it. All right, I got a question. And this is kind
of moving off of all the cloud stuff. You said earlier that the Apple stuff made you mad enough,
you considered like hanging it up, retiring. I think in my generation, we're kind of the
generation right below yours that looked up to you. You called me old. Let me just
equal amounts of gran your beard. I'm the one that said I guess I've always wondered like
someone like you, you get to that level of success or whatever, you could not do this anymore. But
you choose to. And I wonder like, are do you have this idea in your head of what it would take for
you to kind of stop programming? Yes. If Matt's ever decides to introduce static typing into Ruby,
I'm out. The other one would be if somehow like browsers would only accept TypeScript
and not JavaScript anymore. I'm out. No, seriously, as long as I'm still having fun,
and I feel like I have my independence, that's really the two factors I gauge things on. I'm having
a tremendous amount of fun. This is one of the reasons why I'm so passionate about the Linux
thing. It's really been fun. I was about to say a journey of the lifetime. That's probably actually
fair. I haven't had that many platform changing. I'm just going to mix it all up. I'm going to take
20 years of ingrained muscle memory about where the Apple key goes with copy and rewriting that
to the control key. That has been a ton of fun. And building all this tooling we built to get
out of the cloud has been an amazing amount of fun. So I actually don't think I'm going to stop
thinking computers are fun. I just fundamentally really like computers. Like they are just on my
days off, whatever, on the weekend occasionally. I was like, I just want to go like type on my
little keyboard for a while. I'm going to fix a bug. I'm not even hit by the bug. I don't fucking
care about the bug. I want to hear me going to clack from my mechanical keyboard. I want to commit
something. I want to push it. I want to do a release because it's just freaking fun and I enjoy it.
So I don't think that part is going to go away. Again, Matt, if you're listening,
short of you fucking putting static typing into Ruby, not going to happen, man. I'm going to stay
on Ruby three version and whatever before that until the end of time. The other one that's more
likely is that it stops becoming possible to run things independently that you have to run
on say a hyperscaler and release through an app store. Then I'm out. Like, I don't want to do that.
I don't want to go through multiple layers of permission. I don't want to have to beg
fucking cook about whether I can release a new idea into the wild, whether I can release software.
So as long as we can keep the internet strong, and I think that's not as obvious of a premise as
I would have assumed an advocated for it being in like 2008. Like the internet is under pressure
from a lot of different forces. And this idea at the very least of global internet
seems more or less over. Like we are fracturing the internet at an alarming rate. And okay,
maybe that can happen. And maybe we just have to accept that like, at some point, like there's
going to be a European internet, just like there's a Chinese internet, just like there's halfway
a Brazilian internet. And they're not kind of connected, or at least they have very severe
firewalls that prevent things from going back and forth. I hope that America's not getting there.
I don't take it for granted, though. And I don't think anyone should. If you care about the internet
in its sort of original ethos and form, I think you're going to have to get ready to
fight for it, to some extent. What does that mean? I don't fucking know. I don't want to get
political about that in any way. Just this idea of appreciating what we have and realizing how
unique it is. The internet as a software distribution platform is truly one-on-the-kind. If you had
explained it to any VC today, they would have gone like, "Yeah, but where's the toll boost? Can we
just install one around the whole thing? Would you have five different corners? How do you do it?
How do you capture all the economic activities that are coming out of this thing?" And the fact
that we ended up with such a powerful platform that wasn't owned by any individual company and
backed by any individual VC is just mind-blowing. And I think you only realize how unique and rare
it is when you look at the regression we've gone through with the App Stores. That to get software
onto mobile phones, it's not like that at all. It's an absolutely dominated platform with a
single gatekeeper who tells you whether you have a right to exist or not. So if that's what the
internet either becomes or the internet disappears or gets so kneecapped by all these fencing in
that it starts resembling that, okay, I'm also out. But it sounds like the computer's thing that's
for life. I've always wondered. I hope so. I mean, this is actually one of the reasons I
look at AI, right? We talked a little bit about that at the beginning. And people are like,
"They're so excited that AI is going to take all programming jobs." And to some degree,
I can be excited for that in the same way that like, did we need, I don't know,
two million people tending to horses for our economy to function? Maybe not, but I don't really
like horses, but I know people who do, and they still ride them. I hope to be that. I am still
riding the manual code. I'm typing into commands. I'm just narrating to producer 5x AI to build the
shit for me, right? In a museum. Exactly. And I do actually think that that is, there's still
going to be space for that, but I think it's very plausible. And you should certainly consider that
we've reached the high watermark that the number of people employed doing programming for a living
has peaked. It's entirely possible. If you look at almost any other phase of the economy that has
happened, the number of people who work in agriculture, the number of people who worked on the assembly
line, there are plenty of precedents for this idea that there was some glorious times for a
certain industry and for the workers in that industry, and that ended for one reason or another,
usually economic or progress or otherwise, right? And I don't know what that's going to look like,
and I think I don't want to be a few longer here, but I do accept the fact that there are people who
make their living doing this stuff who are right to be a little bit nervous about it. I mean,
if you worked in Detroit in 1972, and you were putting together Buicks, and life was pretty
fucking good, and you had a whatever good setup and two cars in the garage and all this stuff,
yet that doesn't exist in the same way anymore, right? Is that programmer's future? I don't
fucking know. I hope not. I hope not, and I hope also, right? Isn't that weird? Like we think back
on like, do we want to go back to subsistence farming? Do we want to go back to like 98% of the
population, like literally swinging a hoe? Probably not, right? We also don't want to go back to the
assembly line that that occupies everyone. But it's very hard in the moment to like, what comes
after? What is the next? Where's it all going to cycle into? I don't know. And I think sometimes
the cheerling is like, yeah, we're all just going to become prompt engineers. Yeah, no.
Yeah, I mean, it's just like your transition to Linux. It was painful. You didn't know that it
could be better, but eventually kind of you kind of got there. That's what I choose to hope. I choose
to hope that like our AI overlords are going to be benevolent, and we can still prompt them
that they're not prompting us. So one last thing, I have to plug this because you mentioned you
like to ease, you're like blown away by like how crazy two weeks can get. Have you seen what
we've done with our coffee shop? I have not. So we built a coffee shop that's served entirely
over as a sage. So if you do as a sage terminal dot shop, that's awesome. You get a full coffee
buying you can really buy coffee and it shows up at your clear house. But I'm going to try that.
I don't drink coffee, but I will try. I don't drink coffee, but I sell it.
But it was fun because Adam worked on a lot of the like the front end for it, but it was cool
because it's a very constrained UI. You can have like different font sizes. You can only do like
colors and stuff, but the constraints kind of breed like a lot of cool stuff. And build. Yeah,
constraints of the best. There's like amazing to UI tools that I've also been going deeper and
I've built a bunch of other ones too for for work. I love it. Yeah, it's wild. Like it's better UX
than a lot of the more powerful, you know, environments that we have UI in. I dream of doing a 2A for
hay all the time and even a 2A for base camp. It's funny because I remember my first sort of
exposure to twoies was travel agents and flight attendants. Like they work in. I don't know if
they still do. They go fast. They go so fast. They were ahead of the fucking curve. You're
a little quack. They're on a mechanical keyboard. They were hits from the mirror before that became
a thing, right? They're like, I know all the things are F. Well, you're gene. Yeah, you can get to bank
off through Shanghai and stuff over in Buffalo. And you're like, Jesus smokes, have you tried to
use a travel website these days? I mean, this is half the banner on my wife and I's direct chat
is just like, how the fuck did airlines get so shitty? How did shit occasion devour the travel
industry to the point now where I'm like, I pray for travel agents to make a comeback.
It's so damn painful to book any kind of travel through a web-based interface and I'm a big fan
of the internet. I'm a big fan of the web. I built like 20 years there, but I also have to accept
defeat that like a lot of shit on the internet is just actually getting worse. And if they had
the 2e constraints, you couldn't get that shitty. So maybe we should get back to travel agents and
2e's. Everyone's going to be running their own servers and we're only going to be serving up
2e's over as a sage. That's that's a future. Yeah. All right. Thanks so much for coming, David.
This has been so good. Yeah, that was really funny. It was funny. Appreciate it. All right.
Thank you. All right. We're really bad at saying goodbye in like any podcast. So this is just a heads up.